 AOFA- THREE-DIMENSIONAL SUPERSONIC VISCOUS FLOW

( NASA Ames Research Center )

     This program, which is called 'AOFA', determines the complete viscous
and inviscid flow around a body of revolution at a given angle of attack and
traveling at supersonic speeds. The viscous calculations from this pro-
gram agree with experimental values for surface and pitot pressures and
with surface heating rates. At high speeds, lee-side flows are important
because the local heating is difficult to correlate and because the shed
vortices can interact with vehicle components such as a canopy or a verti-
cal tail. This program should find application in the design analysis of
any high speed vehicle.

     Lee-side flows are difficult to calculate because thin-boundary-layer
theory is not applicable and the concept of matching inviscid and viscous
flow is questionable. This program uses the parabolic approximation to the
compressible Navier-Stokes equations and solves for the complete invis-
cid and viscous regions of flow, including the pressure. The parabolic ap-
proximation results from the assumption that the stress derivatives in the
streamwise direction are small in comparison with derivatives in the normal
and circumferential directions. This assumption permits the equation to be
solved by an implicit finite difference marching technique which proceeds
downstream from the initial data point, provided the inviscid portion of
flow is supersonic. The viscous cross-flow separation is also determined
as part of the solution. To use this method it is necessary to first deter-
mine an initial data point in a region where the inviscid portion of the flow
is supersonic.

     Input to this program consists of two parts. Problem description is
conveyed to the program by namelist input. Initial data is acquired by the
program as formatted data. Because of the large amount of run time this pro-
gram can consume the program includes a restart capability. Output is in
printed format and magnetic tape for further processing.

     This program is written in FORTRAN IV and has been implemented on a CDC
7600 with a central memory requirement of approximately 35K (octal) of 60
bit words.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



                                        1




LANGUAGE: FORTRAN IV

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: CDC 7000 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 2,175 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI CDC NOS Internal Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: ARC-11087

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $15.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $30.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        2

