 LCP- LIFETIME COST AND PERFORMANCE MODEL FOR DISTRIBUTED PHOTOVOLTAIC
SYSTEMS

( Cal Tech/Jet Propulsion Lab. )

     The Lifetime Cost and Performance (LCP) Model was developed to assist
in the assessment of Photovoltaic (PV) system design options. LCP is a sim-
ulation of the performance, cost, and revenue streams associated with dis-
tributed PV power systems. LCP provides the user with substantial flexi-
bility in specifying the technical and economic environment of the PV ap-
plication. User-specified input parameters are available to describe PV
system characteristics, site climatic conditions, utility purchase and
sellback rate structures, discount and escalation rates, construction tim-
ing, and lifetime of the system. Such details as PV array orientation and
tilt angle, PV module and balance-of-system performance attributes, and
the mode of utility interconnection are user-specified. LCP assumes that
the distributed PV system is utility grid interactive without dedicated
electrical storage. In combination with a suitable economic model, LCP
can provide an estimate of the expected net present worth of a PV system to
the owner, as compared to electricity purchased from a utility grid. Simi-
larly, LCP might be used to perform sensitivity analyses to identify those
PV system parameters having significant impact on net worth.

     The user describes the PV system configuration to LCP via the basic
electrical components. The module is the smallest entity in the PV sys-
tem which is modeled. A PV module is defined in the simulation by its short
circuit current, which varies over the system lifetime due to degradation
and failure. Modules are wired in series to form a branch circuit. Bypass
diodes are allowed between modules in the branch circuits. Branch circuits
are then connected in parallel to form a bus. A collection of buses is con-
nected in parallel to form an increment to capacity of the system. By choos-
ing the appropriate series-parallel wiring design, the user can specify the
current, voltage, and reliability characteristics of the system.

     LCP simulation of system performance is site-specific and follows a
three-step procedure. First the hourly power produced by the PV system is
computed using a selected year's insolation and temperature profile. For
this step it is assumed that there are no module failures or degradation.
Next, the monthly simulation is performed involving a month to month pro-
gression through the lifetime of the system. In this step, the effects of
degradation, failure, dirt accumulation and operations/maintenance ef-
forts on PV system performance over time are used to compute the monthly
power capability fraction. The resulting monthly power capability frac-
tions are applied to the hourly power matrix from the first step, giving the
anticipated hourly energy output over the lifetime of the system. PV sys-
tem energy output is compared with the PV system owner's electricity demand
for each hour. The amount of energy to be purchased from or sold to the util-
ity grid is then determined. Monthly expenditures on the PV system and the
purchase of electricity from the utility grid are also calculated. LCP gen-
erates output reports pertaining to the performance of the PV system, and
system costs and revenues.



                                        1

     The LCP model, written in SIMSCRIPT 2.5 for batch execution on an IBM
370 series computer, was developed in 1981.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: SIMSCRIPT

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM 370 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 5,852 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: NPO-16001

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $76.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $152.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        2

