 SNEAK CIRCUIT ANALYSIS

( BOEING CO. )

     Input to this program consists of data representing the circuit to be
analyzed. The data is prepared by converting the schematic of the circuit
into a "wire list". In this wire list all switches are assumed closed with
special circumstances, e.g. double throw switches, being noted as switch-
able continuity. The output consists of any paths that meet the criteria
for sneak circuits. These areas of suspicion must then be submitted to man-
ual analysis, but the number of paths to be analyzed is greatly reduced
by the criterion of opposing power and ground. Post-analysis consists of
checking switch logic to sift out paths that cannot be switched on and then
determining any systems effects of the remaining possible sneak circuits.
The computer output is designed to present the path tracing information in
a format that readily assists manual analysis of the suspected sneak cir-
cuits.

     The automated sneak circuit analysis is accomplished in three pro-
cessing phases. The first phase is the data reduction phase. In this phase
the "wire list" is generated. Input may be in several different formats and
even segmented such that separate groups or contractors may prepare "wire
lists" covering subsystems with discontinuities at interfaces. The "wire
list" is merged with an in-line disconnect table establishing continuity
at the interface between any subsystems. This "wire list" is then reduced
to an ISAM file containing a branch cross-reference table, in which each
to-node/from-node branch is uniquely identified and stored with its asso-
ciated characteristics. The second phase is the path derivation phase. In
this process the data in the branch cross-reference table is used to exam-
ine all possible paths to see which meet the above mentioned two-fold crite-
ria for a possible sneak circuit. The third phase is the path regeneration
phase. The paths flagged are listed in branch sequence number and then in
to-from connector sequence. The output report generated is in a highly use-
able format that allows the engineer to verify the suspected sneak circuit
path by locating the wire segments on the circuit schematic drawings.

     Potential users of this package are informed that this is not a ready-
to-use system. Although the documentation is massive, certain aspects of
the system such as preparation of input data from schematics are not ex-
plained in a convenient, detailed format. Users will have to intensively
review the manual and the code itself to gain full knowledge of the opera-
tion of the sneak program. Neither training nor technical assistance in the
use of this program can be provided by COSMIC or NASA.

     The program is written in COBOL F and operates in the batch mode. It has
been implemented on an IBM 360/65 operating under HASP with a central memory
requirement of approximately 250K of 8 bit bytes. Direct access storage is
required with the size requirement dependent on problem size. This program
was developed in 1969.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



                                        1




LANGUAGE: COBOL

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM 360 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 9,151 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: HQN-10517

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $116.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $232.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        2

