 SCAT- SYSTEM COMMONALITY ANALYSIS TOOL

( BOEING CO. )

     The System Commonality Analysis Tool, SCAT, was designed to aid man-
agers and engineers in identifying common, potentially common, and unique
components of a system. Commonality lowers overall system cost through use
of the smallest variety of items or subsystem types in the greatest num-
ber of applications. SCAT, through utilization of a comprehensive parts
database, determines cost effectiveness by comparing life cycle costs of
unique part configurations and standard part configurations. The SCAT
database reflects both engineering and financial data. SCAT was instituted
as a commonality analysis for the Space Station, but is easily applicable to
other projects such as software commonality, which is used as an example in
the detailed documentation.

     SCAT incorporates three major functions: 1) a database creation and
maintenance program, 2) the commonality analysis, and 3) system utili-
ties such as host operating system commands, database load, and unload. The
parts database contains 'generic' attributes needed to calculate life cy-
cle costs, and 'discriminating' attributes for engineering design data.
SCAT selects parts which are similar based on user-defined selection cri-
teria.

     There are two analysis algorithms to choose from. The direct algo-
rithm uses supplied cost figures for design, development, testing and first
product calculations. The relational algorithm estimates these costs
based on complexity factor (simple, medium, complex), item type (elec-
trical, mechanical, etc.), and the percent new development needed. SCAT
also contains a software commonality algorithm which requires package
size, expected number of years of use, and whether the programs are mission-
critical, developed in-house, or dependent on hardware which is not yet
available. SCAT produces reports which tabulate maintenance, initial con-
figuration, and expected total costs. By examining systems made of unique
parts, and systems made of parts having comparable functions, SCAT can help
determine which parts are good commonality candidates. SCAT is menu-driven
and includes an on-line help facility.

     SCAT is written in FORTRAN 77 for interactive execution. It has been
implemented on an IBM PC/XT compatible computer operating under MS-DOS
(V.2.0 and 3.0) with a central memory requirement of approximately 640K
of 8 bit bytes. SCAT requires a 10MB hard disk, the commercial R:base 5000
(V1.0 or 1.01) database, and the MicroRIM database interface package which
is compatible with MicroSoft FORTRAN V.3.2 or 3.31. This program was devel-
oped in 1987.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



                                        1




LANGUAGE: FORTRAN 77

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM PC SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 8,427 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 5.25 Inch IBM PC DOS Format Diskette

PROGRAM NUMBER: MFS-28207

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $37.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $600.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $74.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1200.00



                                        2

