 SUPER/HYPERSONIC INVISCID FLOW AROUND REAL CONFIGURATIONS

( GRUMMAN AEROSPACE CORP. )

     This package was developed to compute the inviscid super/hypersonic
flow field about complex vehicle geometries accurately and efficiently.
A second-order accurate finite difference scheme is used to integrate the
three-dimensional Euler equations in regions of continuous flow, while
all shock waves are computed as discontinuities via the Rankine-Hugoniot
jump conditions. This package has the ability to compute blunt nose entropy
layers in detail. Real gas effects for equilibrium air are included using
curve fits of Mollier charts. This package can be a very useful tool in the
design and analysis of high speed vehicles such as supersonic aircraft, hy-
personic transports, and re-entry spacecraft (shuttle orbiter).

     This package consists of three separate computer programs. STEIN is
the program that solves the Euler equations for the flow field. This solu-
tion is obtained by following these basic guidelines:

     1) An accurate second order finite difference marching technique is
used to numericallly integrate the governing partial differential equa-
tions;

     2) Shock waves in the flow field are followed and the Rankine-Hugoniot
conditions are satisfied across them;

     3) The intersection of two shocks of the same family is computed ex-
plicitly;

     4) Conformal mappings are used to develop a computational grid;

     5) Body boundary conditions are satisfied by recasting the equations
according to the concept of characteristics;

     6) The edge of the entropy layer on blunt nose vehicles is followed from
its origin and the derivatives across the layer formed;

     7) Real gas effects are included when appropriate, by using fits of
Mollier charts; and

     8) Sharp leading edge wings are computed using a local two-dimensional
solution. The only limitation to this solution technique is that the Mach
number in the marching direction (nose to tail) must be supersonic at every
point in the flow field. The region around the nose of blunt nosed vehicles
must be computed by another technique (see description of BLUNT below) and
once the flow becomes supersonic STEIN can proceed with its calculations.
This program has been used extensively to compute external flow fields and
has been found to yield accurate results for a wide variety of vehicle con-
figurations flying at Mach numbers between 2 and 26 and having angles of at-
tack to plus/minus 30 degrees.

     The program BLUNT is used to find flow fields about blunt nosed por-
tions of the vehicle. BLUNT uses a time dependent computational technique
to asymptote to a steady transonic solution. Output from this program can
be used by STEIN to define the flow field points where supersonic flow be-
gins. The program QUICK provides the user with a geometry system to model a



                                        1

complex vehicle geometry in a quick, straight-forward fashion. QUICK con-
sists of an initial defining and logical checkout group of routines, which
actually set up the mathematical model, and a second group of routines which
are used to interrogate the model for cross sectional information. QUICK
supplies all geometrical information about the vehicle to STEIN.

     The programs in this package are written in FORTRAN IV for batch exe-
cution and have been implemented on a CDC 6600. The STEIN program has a cen-
tral memory requirement of approximately 200K (octal) of 60 bit words.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: FORTRAN IV

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: CDC 6000 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 16,174 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI CDC NOS Internal Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: LAR-11891

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $48.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $96.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        2

