 QUIKVIS- CELESTIAL TARGET AVAILABILITY INFORMATION

( NASA Goddard Space Flight Center )

     QUIKVIS computes the times during an Earth orbit when geometric re-
quirements are satisfied for observing celestial objects. The observed ob-
jects may be fixed (stars, etc.) or moving (sun, moon, planets). QUIKVIS is
useful for preflight analysis by those needing information on the avail-
ability of celestial objects to be observed. Two types of analyses are per-
formed by QUIKVIS. One is used when specific objects are known, the other
when targets are unknown and potentially useful regions of the sky must be
identified. The results are useful in selecting candidate targets, examin-
ing the effects of observation requirements, and doing gross assessments of
the effects of the orbit's right ascension of the ascending node (RAAN). The
results are not appropriate when high accuracy is needed (e.g. for schedul-
ing actual mission operations).

     The observation duration is calculated as a function of date, orbit
node, and geometric requirements. The orbit right ascension of the ascend-
ing node can be varied to account for the effects of an uncertain launch time
of day. The orbit semimajor axis and inclination are constant throughout
the run. A circular orbit is assumed, but a simple program modification
will allow eccentric orbits. The geometric requirements that can be pro-
cessed are: 1) minimum separation angle between the line of sight to the ob-
ject and the earth's horizon; 2) minimum separation angle between the line
of sight to the object and the spacecraft velocity vector; 3) maximum sep-
aration angle between the line of sight to the object and the zenith direc-
tion; and 4) presence of the spacecraft in the earth's shadow. The user must
supply a date or date range, the spacecraft orbit and inclination, up to 700
observation targets, and any geometric requirements to be met. The primary
output is the time per orbit that conditions are satisfied, with options for
sky survey maps, time since a user-specified orbit event, and bar graphs
illustrating overlapping requirements. The output is printed in visually
convenient lineprinter form but is also available on data files for use by
postprocessors such as external XY plotters.

     QUIKVIS is written in FORTRAN 77 for batch or interactive execution and
has been implemented on a DEC VAX 11/780 operating under VMS with a central
memory requirement of approximately 500K of 8 bit bytes. QUIKVIS was devel-
oped in 1986 and revised in 1987.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



                                        1




LANGUAGE: FORTRAN 77

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: DEC VAX SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 24,848 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI DEC VAX FILES-11 Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: GSC-13083

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $21.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $2500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $42.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $5000.00



                                        2

