[NQCJP.COSMIC.TAPE8706]SWCHANGES.TXT             JUNE 12, 1987



         QUIKVIS CHANGES:  JULY, 1986 TO THE PRESENT
         -------------------------------------------


The QUIKVIS version submitted to cosmic in the summer of
1986 has been included in the COSMIC inventory(GSC-13083). 
Changes since then have been in capability, formatting,
error correction, and structure. 



CAPABILITY CHANGES
------------------

The ability to create a 'Detailed Data File' has been added.
Four levels of increasingly detailed information about
program results are available.  This file can be used by
special purpose programs to post-process intermediate
results in ways not anticipated in the QUIKVIS design.  The
file format is given in the user's guide. 




FORMATTING
----------

The format of some user input has been changed to
accommodate the new detailed data file option. 

The formats of some prompt messages have been changed. 

The format of printed detail data has had several minor
changes for the sake of convenience in reading the results. 

The format for reporting the values of program controls has
been changed. 

An explanation telling how to interpret sky survey output
has been added to pages containing sky survey grids. 




ERROR CORRECTION
----------------

A subroutine, ANGLAP, had a design error and has been
replaced.  The error little or no chance of occurring, but
if it had, it would have affected the results and gone
undetected.  Such a routine should not be present.  Also,
the erroneous routine could be used in later software and
propagate the error. 




STRUCTURE
---------

A scratch data file is used to save and retrieve
intermediate results during processing.  Formerly, multiple
routines wrote to and read from this file.  A new
subroutine, QUIKVIS5U, has been written which contains one
read statement and one write statement for the file. 
Routines that formerly wrote or read the file directly now
call the new subroutine. This was a minor structural change.
