 NBOD2- PROGRAM TO DERIVE AND SOLVE EQUATIONS OF MOTION FOR COUPLED N-BODY
SYSTEMS

( NASA Goddard Space Flight Center )

     The analysis of the dynamic characteristics of a complex system, such
as a spacecraft or a robot, is usually best accomplished through the study
of a simulation model. The simulation model must have the same dynamic
characteristics as the complex system, while lending itself to mathemati-
cal quantification. The NBOD2 computer program was developed to aid in the
analysis of spacecraft attitude dynamics. NBOD2 is a very general program
that may be applied to a large class of problems involving coupled N-body
systems. NBOD2 provides the dynamics analyst with the capability to auto-
matically derive and numerically solve the equations of motion for any sys-
tem that can be modeled as a topological tree of coupled rigid bodies, flex-
ible bodies, point masses, and symmetrical momentum wheels.

     NBOD2 uses a topological tree model of the dynamic system to derive
the vector-dyadic equations of motion for the system. The user builds this
topological tree model by using rigid and flexible bodies, point masses,
and symmetrical momentum wheels with appropriate connections. To insure
that the relative motion between contiguous bodies is kinematically con-
strained, NBOD2 assumes that contiguous rigid and flexible bodies are con-
nected by physically reliable 0, 1, 2, and 3-degrees-of-freedom gimbals.
These gimbals prohibit relative translational motion, while permitting up
to 3 degrees of relative rotational freedom at hinge points. Point masses
may have 0, 1, 2, or 3-degrees of relative translational freedom, and sym-
metric momentum wheels may have a single degree of rotational freedom rel-
ative to the body in which they are imbedded. Flexible bodies may possess
several degrees of vibrational freedom in addition to the degrees of free-
dom associated with the connection gimbals. Data concerning the natural
modes and vibrations of the flexible bodies must be supplied by the user.
NBOD2 combines the best features of the discrete-body approach and the
nested body approach to reduce the topological tree to a complete set of
nonlinear equations of motion in vector-dyadic form for the system being
analyzed. NBOD2 can then numerically solve the equations of motion.

     Input to NBOD2 consists of a user-supplied description of the sys-
tem to be modeled. The NBOD2 system includes an interactive, tutorial, in-
put support program to aid the NBOD2 user in preparing input data. Output
from NBOD2 consists of a listing of the complete set of nonlinear equations
of motion in vector-dyadic form and any userspecified set of system state
variables.

     The NBOD2 program is written in FORTRAN 77 for batch execution and has
been implemented on a DEC VAX-11/780 computer. The NBOD2 program was devel-
oped in 1978 and last updated in 1982.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



                                        1




LANGUAGE: FORTRAN 77

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: DEC VAX-11/780

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 9,965 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI DEC VAX FILES-11 Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: GSC-12846

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $53.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $106.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        2

