 EXPERT SYSTEM EXECUTIVE

( McDonnell Douglas Corp. )

     Real-time data monitoring is a decision making process involving
knowledge of the system being watched and inferences based upon the ob-
served data. The Expert System Executive is a computer program which demon-
strates the feasibility of automated real-time monitoring. Using the Ex-
ecutive, the knowledge of a system is formally coded as a set of rules spec-
ifying actions to be taken under various conditions. The program makes in-
ferences about the observed data based on the rules. The Executive has been
tested by monitoring the Shuttle onboard navigation console using flight
data from an entry simulation. The test rule base pertaining to onboard
state vectors is included in the program documentation. By supplying an ap-
propriate set of rules, the Expert System Executive can be adapted to other
real-time applications such as plant operations. Each rule must contain a
schedule of conditions and the action to be executed when all its conditions
are true.

     When provided with a set of rules and real-time data, the Executive
continuously compares the current status to the rule conditions, deter-
mines which rules are applicable and which are not, and performs the re-
quired action for the applicable rules. The Executive has three principal
data structures: 1) an array containing the rules, 2) an array containing
the conditions, and 3) the queues containing the conflict set. The princi-
ple constraint on the Executive, as with all real-time programs, is execu-
tion speed.

     The Expert System Executive is written in the C language, which is a
highly efficient compiled language allowing faster execution on conven-
tional equipment than LISP-based systems. C is also an efficient manipula-
tor of large data structures, which are used in the pattern matching algo-
rithm.

     The Expert System Executive is written in the C language for interac-
tive execution and has been implemented on an HP 9000 series (system 1805)
computer. This program was developed in 1984.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



                                        1




LANGUAGE: C-LANGUAGE

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: HP 9000 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 1,192 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI ASCII Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: MSC-20908

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $21.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $42.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        2

