 VISCOUS CHARACTERICTICS ANALYSIS

( NASA Langley Research Center )

     Current investigations of the hydrogen-fueled supersonic combus-
tion ramjet engine have delineated several technological problem areas.
One area, the analysis of the injection, turbulent mixing, and combusiton
of hydrogen, requires the accurate calculation of the supersonic combus-
tion flow fields. This calculation has proven difficult because of an in-
teresting phenomena which makes possible the transition from supersonic
to subsonic flow in the combustion field, due to the temperature transi-
tions which occur in the flow field. This computer program was developed to
use viscous characteristics theory to analyze supersonic combustion flow
fields with imbedded subsonic regions. Intended to be used as a practical
design tool for two-dimensional and axisymmetric supersonic combustor de-
velopment, this program has proven useful in the analysis of such problems
as determining the flow field of a single underexpanded hydrogen jet, the
internal flow of a gas sampling probe, the effects of fuel-injector strut
shape, and the effects of changes in combustor configuration.

     Both combustion and diffusive effects can significantly alter the wave
pattern in a supersonic field and generate significant pressure gradients
in both the axial and radial directions. The induced pressure, in turn,
substantially influences the ignition delay and reaction times as well as
the velocity distribution. To accurately analyze the flow fields, the ef-
fects of finite rate chemistry, mixing, and wave propagation must be prop-
erly linked to one another. The viscous characteristics theory has been
used in the past to describe flows that are purely supersonic; however, the
interacting pressure effects in the combustor often allow for the devel-
opment of shock waves and imbedded subsonic regions. Numerical investi-
gation of these transonic situations has required the development of a new
viscous characteristics procedure which is valid within the subsonic re-
gion and can be coupled with the standard viscous characteristics proce-
dure in the supersonic region. The basic governing equations used are the
'viscous-inviscid' equations, similar to those employed in higher-order
boundary layer analyses, with finite rate chemistry terms included. In ad-
dition, the Rankine-Hugoniot and Prandtl-Meyer relations are used to com-
pute shock and expansion conditions. The program can handle up to 20 si-
multaneous shock waves. Chemistry terms are computed for a 7-species 8-
mechanism hydrogen-air reaction scheme. The user input consists of a phys-
ical description of the combustor and flow determination parameters. Out-
put includes detail flow parameter values at selected points within the
flow field.

     This computer program is written in FORTRAN IV for batch execution and
has been implemented on a CDC CYBER 175 with a central memory requirement
of approximately 114K (octal) of 60 bit words. The program was developed in
1978.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



                                        1




LANGUAGE: FORTRAN IV

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: CDC CYBER 70 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 5,170 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: LAR-12598

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $47.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $94.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        2

