 EVALUATION OF REGISTRATION, COMPRESSION AND CLASSIFICATION ALGORITHMS

( NASA Marshall Space Flight Center )

     Several types of algorithms are generally used to process digital im-
agery such as Landsat data. The most commonly used algorithms perform the
task of registration, compression, and classification. Because there are
different techniques available for performing registration, compression,
and classification, imagery data users need a rationale for selecting a
particular approach to meet their particular needs. This collection of
registration, compression, and classification algorithms was developed
so that different approaches could be evaluated and the best approach for
a particular application determined. Routines are included for six regis-
tration algorithms, six compression algorithms, and two classification al-
gorithms. The package also includes routines for evaluating the effects of
processing on the image data. This collection of routines should be useful
to anyone using or developing image processing software.

     Registration of image data involves the geometrical alteration of the
imagery. Registration routines available in the evaluation package in-
clude image magnification, mapping functions, partitioning, map overlay,
and data interpolation. The compression of image data involves reducing
the volume of data needed for a given image. Compression routines available
in the package include adaptive differential pulse code modulation, two-
dimensional transforms, clustering, vector reduction, and picture segmen-
tation. Classification of image data involves analyzing the uncompressed
or compressed image data to produce inventories and maps of areas of similar
spectral properties within a scene. The classification routines available
include a sequential linear technique and a maximum likelihood technique.

     The choice of the appropriate evaluation criteria is quite important
in evaluating the image processing functions. The user is therefore given
a choice of evaluation criteria with which to investigate the available im-
age processing functions. All of the available evaluation criteria basi-
cally compare the observed results with the expected results. For the im-
age reconstruction processes of registration and compression, the expected
results are usually the original data or some selected characteristics of
the original data. For classification processes the expected result is the
ground truth of the scene. Thus, the comparison process consists of deter-
mining what changes occur in processing, where the changes occur, how much
change occurs, and the amplitude of the change. The package includes evalu-
ation routines for performing such comparisons as average uncertainty, av-
erage information transfer, chi-square statistics, multidimensional his-
tograms, and computation of contingency matrices.

     This collection of routines is written in FORTRAN IV for batch execu-
tion and has been implemented on an IBM 360 computer with a central memory
requirement of approximately 662K of 8 bit bytes. This collection of image
processing and evaluation routines was developed in 1979.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



                                        1




LANGUAGE: FORTRAN IV

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM 360 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 8,715 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: MFS-25367

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $54.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $108.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        2

