 INCA- INTERACTIVE CONTROLS ANALYSIS

( NASA Goddard Space Flight Center )

     The Interactive Controls Analysis (INCA) program was developed to pro-
vide a user friendly environment for the design and analysis of linear con-
trol systems, primarily feedback control systems. INCA is designed for use
with both small and large order systems. Using the interactive graphics ca-
pability, the INCA user can quickly plot a root locus, frequency response,
or time response of either a continuous time system or a sampled data sys-
tem. The system configuration and parameters can be easily changed, al-
lowing the INCA user to design compensation networks and perform sensi-
tivity analysis in a very convenient manner. A journal file capability is
included. This stores an entire sequence of commands, generated during an
INCA session into a file which can be accessed later. Also included in INCA
are a context-sensitive help library, a screen editor, and plot windows.
INCA is robust to VAX-specific overflow problems.

     The transfer function is the basic unit of INCA. Transfer functions are
automatically saved and are available to the INCA user at any time. A power-
ful, user friendly transfer function manipulation and editing capability
is built into the INCA program. The user can do all transfer function manip-
ulations and plotting without leaving INCA, although provisions are made to
input transfer functions from data files. By using a small set of commands,
the user may compute and edit transfer functions, and then examine these
functions by using the ROOT_LOCUS, FREQUENCY_RESPONSE, and TIME_RESPONSE
capabilities. Basic input data, including gains, are handled as single-
input single-output transfer functions. These functions can be developed
using the function editor or by using FORTRAN- like arithmetic expressions.
In addition to the arithmetic functions, special functions are available
to 1) compute step, ramp, and sinusoid functions, 2) compute closed loop
transfer functions, 3) convert from S plane to Z plane with optional ad-
vanced Z transform, and 4) convert from Z plane to W plane and back. These
capabilities allow the INCA user to perform block diagram algebraic manip-
ulations quickly for functions in the S, Z, and W domains. Additionally,
a versatile digital control capability has been included in INCA. Special
plane transformations allow the user to easily convert functions from one
domain to another. Other digital control capabilities include: 1) totally
independent open loop frequency response analyses on a continuous plant,
discrete control system with a delay, 2) advanced Z-transform capability
for systems with delays, and 3) multirate sampling analyses. The current
version of INCA includes Dynamic Functions (which change when a parameter
changes), standard filter generation, PD and PID controller generation,
incorporation of the QZ-algorithm (function addition, inverse Laplace),
and describing functions that allow the user to calculate the gain and phase
characteristics of a nonlinear device.

     The INCA graphic modes provide the user with a convenient means to doc-
ument and study frequency response, time response, and root locus analyses.
General graphics features include: 1) zooming and dezooming, 2) plot docu-
mentation, 3) a table of analytic computation results, 4) multiple curves
on the same plot, and 5) displaying frequency and gain information for a



                                        1

specific point on a curve. Additional capabilities in the frequency re-
sponse mode include: 1) a full complement of graphical methods

     Bode magnitude, Bode phase, Bode combined magnitude and phase, Bode
strip plots, root contour plots, Nyquist, Nichols, and Popov plots; 2) user
selected plot scaling; and 3) gain and phase margin calculation and dis-
play. In the time response mode, additional capabilities include: 1) sup-
port for inverse Laplace and inverse Z transforms, 2) support for various
input functions, 3) closed loop response evaluation, 4) loop gain sensitiv-
ity analyses, 5) intersample time response for discrete systems using the
advanced Z transform, and 6) closed loop time response using mixed plane (S,
Z, W) operations with delay. A Graphics mode command was added to the cur-
rent version of INCA, version 3.13, to produce Metafiles (graphic files)
of the currently displayed plot. The metafile can be displayed and edited
using the QPLOT Graphics Editor and Replotter for Metafiles (GERM) program
included with the INCA package.

     The INCA program is written in Pascal and FORTRAN for interactive or
batch execution and has been implemented on a DEC VAX series computer under
VMS. Both source code and executable code are supplied for INCA. Full INCA
graphics capabilities are supported for various Tektronix 40xx and 41xx
terminals; DEC VT graphics terminals; many PC and Macintosh terminal emu-
lators; TEK014 hardcopy devices such as the LN03 Laserprinter; and bit map
graphics external hardcopy devices. Also included for the TEK4510 raster-
izer users are a multiple copy feature, a wide line feature, and additional
graphics fonts. The INCA program was developed in 1985, Version 2.04 was
released in 1986, Version 3.00 was released in 1988, and Version 3.13 was
released in 1989. An INCA version 2.0X conversion program is included.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: PASCAL ( 94 %); FORTRAN 77 ( 06 %);

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: DEC VAX SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 26,701 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI DEC VAX BACKUP Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: GSC-12998

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $61.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $3000.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $122.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $6000.00



                                        2

