 OPTIMAL NETWORK TOPOLOGY DESIGN

( Cal Tech/Jet Propulsion Lab. )

     This program was developed as part of a research study on the topology
design and performance analysis for the Space Station Information System
(SSIS) network. It uses an efficient algorithm to generate candidate net-
work designs (consisting of subsets of the set of all network components)
in increasing order of their total costs, and checks each design to see if
it forms an acceptable network. This technique gives the true cost-optimal
network, and is particularly useful when the network has many constraints
and not too many components.

     It is intended that this new design technique consider all important
performance measures explicitly and take into account the constraints due
to various technical feasibilities. In the current program, technical con-
straints are taken care of by the user properly forming the starting set of
candidate components (e.g. nonfeasible links are not included). As subsets
are generated, they are tested to see if they form an acceptable network by
checking that all requirements are satisfied. Thus the first acceptable
subset encountered gives the cost-optimal topology satisfying all given
constraints.

     The user must sort the set of "feasible" link elements in increasing
order of their costs. The program prompts the user for the following in-
formation for each link: 1) cost, 2) connectivity (number of stations con-
nected by the link), and 3) the stations connected by that link. Unless in-
structed to stop, the program generates all possible acceptable networks in
increasing order of their total costs. The program is written only to gen-
erate topologies that are simply connected. Tests on reliability, delay,
and other performance measures are discussed in the documentation, but have
not been incorporated into the program.

     This program is written in PASCAL for interactive execution and has
been implemented on an IBM PC series computer operating under PC DOS. The
disk contains source code only. This program was developed in 1985.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: PASCAL

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM PC SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 520 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 5.25 Inch IBM PC DOS Format Diskette

PROGRAM NUMBER: NPO-16809

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $17.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $50.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $34.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $100.00



                                        1

